Have you been to an interview recently, been perfectly qualified
for the role, you've answered all the questions correctly, but
still been rejected? Well, the answer could lie in your
body language. Recent studies suggest that only seven percent of
your communication are the actual words you say. Thirty-eight percent
are certain vocal elements like your intonation, but fifty-five percent
is your non-verbal, things like your facial expression, your gestures,
your posture. So this video is going to look at
the messages you've been sending out with your body language
and how to tweak those to make sure you're sending
out all the right signals at your next interview. So
think about your body posture. A very natural thing for
people to do is to slouch, uh, in the chair
or fold their arms, and this looks like you're making
yourself smaller, wrapping yourself up, and the signal you're giving
off to the interviewer is that you're defensive or nervous.
Instead, open up your body. Don't cross your legs or
fold your arms, um, but engage slightly forward from the
waist, and this will give the appearance to the interviewer
that you're interested. If you're, um, jiggling about a lot
in the chair, um, keeping changing your body posture, or
you're playing with a button on your shirt or the
ring or other objects, um, you're going to appear anxious
and nervous, and certainly the interviewer is going to be
less inclined to have confidence in you. So a really
good tip is to first slow your breathing down. This
will slow your heart rate and make you feel less
nervy. Keep your hand gestures steady and only to emphasize
a point. Palm upwards signifies that what you're saying is
honest and trustworthy. Um, touching your heart signifies that what
you're saying is genuine. Steepling is a sign of confidence.
Conversely, clasping your hands is a sign of self-comfort and
anxiety, so make sure you avoid these. Mirroring the
interviewer is a, an effective technique, but it needs to
be done very subtly. Mirroring hand movements or positive gestures,
waiting ten seconds, though, before you do it yourself. Um,
you can also mirror your speech, so, um, their vocabulary,
their jargon, um, the rate or volume, um, of their
speech. People trust those that are similar to themselves, so
this makes the interviewer, um, feel at ease, and you're
more likely to build rapport with them. This is so
important. Interviewees often avoid the gaze of the interviewer or
they look down. Um, but by looking at the interviewer's
eyes, you're asserting your confidence, your trustworthiness. Instead of staring
at the interviewer, alternate your gaze between the left eye,
the right eye, the mouth, maybe every three seconds, just
enough to see the color of the interviewer's eyes. For
panel interviews, make sure you look at everybody, but specifically
focus your attention on the person who's asking you the
question or is speaking at the time. To avoid line
signals, um, the main rule is avoid touching your face,
so especially your nose, your mouth, your ears, your sideburns.
These are all signs that will suggest to your interviewer
that you're being dishonest with the way that you're answering
their questions. So the, the handshake is an obvious one,
um, but so many people get this wrong. It's the
unspoken word that initiates conversation in any social or professional
get-together. Too firm, and you'll seem too dominant. Too weak,
and you'll seem under-confident. Instead, always initiate the handshake, match
the interviewer's grip, apply the one-two second rule, smile, and
repeat their name. By putting these body language tips into
practice, you'll be giving off the right impression at your
next interview. Now all you need to worry about is
what you're actually going to say.